This follow up to 2007's brilliant  The Darkness  is....
Difficulty: Easy Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Too short 
If I was Digital Extremes, I wouldn't have wanted to have been in their shoes when they found out they were going to do the follow-up to the painfully underrated game  The Darkness  --based on the Top Cow comics. The Darkness was made by the excellent developers:  Starbreeze Studio , who not only had that unique graphical, grimey edge not many developers can pull off, but they manged to nail the story to a tee. Heart wrenching, gripping, funny, dark all in one. It is definitely up there with the greats IMO. The gameplay was unque, also: having a solid shooter, mixed in with a light and darkness mechanic (that works very similar to the Riddick games) that made this game stand out from the rest. So, DE aren't known for their single-player games, infact, this is actually their second game --the other being Dark Sector-- to date they can tick off as a proper game. They've mainly concentrated on multiplayer aspects of games. So what the hell were they thinking in letting a fairly noobish developer take care of this brittle beast? I don't actually know, but I can tell you, they have done a suprisingly good job in carrying on the franchise. Now, this game didn't win over the original -far from it; if you compare it to its bigger brother, it fails in comparison in almost every catagory, but yet if you look at it on its own, it is a great game. The story is written by the same guy who did the first game, and this is one if its saving graces. The story is really good: carrying on from the first game, Jackie has managed to hold the Darkness at bay, until a mob hit that accures in his resturant. Left for dead, he has no choice but to release the Darkness to save him, and find out who is behind the hit. The locations in the game are varied and interesting to explore, and the amount of different ways to go about taking on the enemy are of the plenty. But while this is a solid game, there are alot of faults with it too. Namely the length of the game, and the difficulty; the game is a shocking 5 hours long! And after hearing this through varies reviews and hear-say, I decided to play the game on the hardest difficulty from the off. Alas, it didn't lengthen the experience, and the challenge wasn't really that hard. Considering the first game is quite a long game, this game is about a 1/3 as long... And while the graphics do look nice, they don't seem to fit the  mature  content this game offers: swearing, gore -you name it- but it's hard to take it seriously when it feels like your playing XIII. The first games graphics fit the mood of the story and the location perfectly. Graphics: Really nice, but out of place with the tone of the game. 8 Sound: Really good soundtrack, and voice-acting, but I do miss the original voice actors. 8 Gameplay: A solid shooter. The little extras really help vary the manotony. 8 Sh!te Box: Too short. Graphics don't fit. Too easy. Overall: This game is unfortunately overshadowed (pun intended) by its predicessor. But look at it as a stand alone game and this is actually really fun. It aims much more at the comic material, so if your a fan of the comics, you'll probably love this one more. I do recommend this as a rental though, because it won't last you longer than a weekend.
T