The darkness 2 may not be the masterpiece the darkness was but it is still a contender
Difficulty: Just Right Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Almost, but not quite 
the darkness 2 is the best game in the world and is 10x better than darkness !!!! i am not going to say that personally as a gamer i never imagined that a b_grade studio like Digital Extremes can make something equal to masterpiece of Starbreeze it just doesn't make sense. but imagine if this game wasn't sequel to such a giant or if you wasn't a Fanatic fan of it(which most likely you are). starting from story,the prime concern of fans before game was released .and now i gotta say it doesn't maintain that great atmosphere of original game.but story is still worth the time & effort and storytelling is even better.the psychological asylum scenes and monologs are keeping the gamer on their toes. wondering until the end( what's gonna happen) (is Jackie just a psycho?) graphics are completely changed from realistic style to a cell shade type(graphical noir according to developers) getting closer to original comics the game has Adapted from . but this probably because the original game was somewhat cutting-edge during it's time and because Digital Extremes couldn't make something like that he used this method to get the job done.however this style is still game's strong point but the game has nothing to say from a technical view. sound effects and and voice acting are great Jackie's voice is changed but it's still great . soundtrack of game is excellent but because the heat action you probably won't notice it most of the time overall game is superb in audio category. gameplay is one other thing that completely changed from sandbox style to a linear run n' gun.but this isn't that bad that you may think of it.the game features a quad-wielding system that allows player to use two different guns and two demonic arms,each for specific purposes at same time .learning curve may be a little high at first but once you get hang of it it makes you completely invulnerable . the upgrading and leveling system wasn't one of main elements of classic rpgs but this days every games has a upgrade system , it said: this game has rpg elements ! the darkness 2 also has a upgrade system which has four talent trees:hit man, executions ,demon arms, darkness powers. the system's bulid is decent for a fps itself but it actually increases the game's replay value because you need to beat the game twice to complete it as game is hardly 5h long on normal difficulty. all i wanted to say in this review was this: if the game had a different name or the expectations wasn't soaring to sky . grades were much better so don't trust them
T