{7.5}Amazing while it lasts, but dont expect it to last too long...
Difficulty: Very Easy Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Too short 
This will be a new style from me, but while this game is amazing, its so unbelivably short and that greatly lets it down. Story --- 9/10 This is a dark and interesting story, you play as Jackie Estacado a troubled NY Mafia leader who at the age of 21 was infused with the power of the darkness. The darkness is basically the devil, it gives Jackie an amazing amount of power and comes in the form of demonic tentacles. You are being hunted by an unknown force that wants to steal the darkness, also you have battle Jackies personal problems. The game starts with a fancy restaurant attacked by this force and it forces you to unleash the darkness which has been contained for a few years. Its a very gritty yet emotional story that pulls you in. Gameplay --- 8/10 Gameplay is very shooter, it great unique and features a new thing called quad-wielding. This allows you to control both the demonic tentacles and guns which can be dual-wield and that makes quad-wielding. Its very unique and hope its used in other games because its actually very simple to use and get used and is satisfying. the gunplay is pretty simple and normal but added with the ability to use your tentacles is very fun. The tentacles are also very unique and really feel brutal. You can slice or impale in any direction give sense of control. Mixing with guns for example an enemy gets throw in the air and you gun him down its awesome and their a variety or executions which can performed. Their is also the oppotunity to upgrade you powers. Yes there are also special powers in the way of summoning black holes and swarms of hornets to kill you enemys. Also you get vendatta's which is standalone co-op campaign which features not tentancles but swords and axes at your disposal. Also throughout the game you must sure that are in the darkness or you become disorientated. Visuals --- 5/10 Poor, the graphics are unique but not good enough, it tries to copy that of borderlands graphics and tries to look cartoony so its like it comic but it falls and visuals are poor. Things rough and edgy and could be much although. Although this is unique and not many games use this technique. It tries to use these graphics to make the game more action based whereas the previous game used normal graphics to boost its fear factor and ability to envoke atmosphere. Audio --- 7/10 Lovely musics fits well with its gritty atmosphere but its not a good as its original. Brilliant voice acting also brings all the characters to life and makes them lively a real. Also the sounds effects are great and add to the atmosphere. Overall --- 7.5/10 Strong story and very well worked gameplay make the darkness a very enjoyable and worthwhile experience but the graphics might offput some. Characters are brought to live with great voice acting but the big problem. You have much fun with this for its very fun to play a big let down is that you can complete this game TWICE on Hard in around 12 hours. Also the vendetta's is fun but only another 3hoursand its only really fun in co-op. Thats a massive let down because the first game was fairly long and had some RPG techniques fused into it, whereas this game is as linear as most FPS with no form of exploration like the first yet it buildson the original. Pro's - Great story - Brilliant gameplay - Great voice acting - Unique Con's - Weak Graphics - Short - Too linear Grade - C
