The Darkness...I dunno, it's good.
Difficulty: Easy Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Surprisingly good 
I picked up The Darkness for about 3 dollars last year and I was a bit skeptical about it. Why would this game be 3 bucks? Either it was so terrible or did not sell well. Thank god it was the latter. The Darkness is based on a series of comics which I have never heard of and you probaby haven't either. Thankfully, this does not exactly follow the comic's storyline and is basically a retelling of it. You play as Jackie Estacado who is part of the Mob and well, the least I can say about the story is that I thought it was okay. Everyone loves it, but I just thought it was okay. You get betrayed by your Uncle and you want to take him down. Your Great-Grandfather started a curse in the bloodline by being controlled by The Darkness. Every time a male in the family turns 21, they too are cursed with The Darkness. Since Jackie was an orphan, he was never aware of this. Jackie turns 21 just as he is betrayed and the Darkness begins to take you over. You must use the Darkness in order to stop your evil Uncle. The gameplay in The Darkness is quite average. The real attraction is that you have the power of the Darkness and must use it to stop your enemies. I have a few complaints about this game. 1. The Darkness is overpowered and makes the game a breeze. You get a power in the middle of the game called,  Black Hole , which you can keep spamming and your enemies will not even get a chance to fire one shot at you. 2. Side-Quests are boring, useless, and a waste of time. 3. Lack of Weapons. You get pistols, a machine gun, and a near useless shotgun...have fun. The Darkness has a great single player campaign which lasts about 5-10 hours. It has a good story which I am not going to spoil. There are also a lot of collectibles, but there is nothing in The Darkness that I think will make me keep coming back, despite having a bunch of collectibles. Sometimes collectibles will unlock clip art most of the time. Sometimes you will unlock a video or even a comic book of the original series. I think for 3 bucks The Darkness will definately not be a waste of your time and is a good game. I have high hopes for The Darkness 2.