Great gun-play, a twisting plot, and a riveting atmosphere make The Darkness an achieving shooter.
Difficulty: Just Right Time Spent: 20 to 40 Hours The Bottom Line:  Check your bargain bin 
The Darkness Review (Xbox 360) Written By: xGlenn11x Spoiler Alert: Attention readers, some plot points are discussed over the course of my review. I try to keep it as brief as possible. Viewers, you have been warned. In the earlier part of this console generation, the Xbox 360 saw a spike in the shooter genre. Almost every time you play a game on Xbox Live, you will see your friends playing games like Halo, Call of Duty, and Gears of War. Well, in June 2007, the shooter genre gained a new member in the form of The Darkness, starring the hero Jackie Estacado, a young man who gains special abilities through a dark and mysterious creature. You will have to take Jackie on a whirlwind of an adventure to right your wrongs, and put an end to a corrupt gangster. Early on, you take control of Jackie as you learn about your Uncle Paulie being a little crazy as he issues a bounty on your head. After a couple of near-death experiences, you gain control of this mysterious and dark creature known as the Darkness. Those who have read the comic/novel will feel right at home and those who have not may be asking themselves what the hell it has to do with the plot of this game in the first place. Well I assure you that you will not be disappointed as long as you are patient with the story. Once the game itself climaxes, it never falls, and only continues to get better and better until the bitter end. The Darkness features a nice combination of gunplay and some slight strategy as well at times. Aiming can be difficult at times, but you can't harp on it too much due to the fun you will have using the powers bestowed within you. Over time, the Darkness will get stronger as you devour the hearts of your foes, and what was once just a single ability, slowly turns into four devastating moves at your disposal. Each one has certain situations that they are best suited to, whether it be a stealth approach or guns blazing (or Darkness blazing? Maybe..?) Overall, stick to the dark areas, and if necessary, shoot the lights out quickly so that you are almost invulnerable. Due to the empty void that is the online community, I am unable to write about anything involving that feature in the game. Graphically, The Darkness is mixed for me. Some areas of the game are flat out awesome, and others you almost wish you could puke. The character models during conversation especially look awful sometimes, but I have seen worse so I can't bash it too much here. Environments overall are really nice as well. Lighting is done beautifully, and five years later I am still impressed. The Darkness is a fun shooter, and a pretty lengthy one at that. I found myself so consumed that minutes turned to hours and hours turned to days. I'd say with me searching for collectables, my playthrough lasted roughly 24-30 hours, which is nice for ANY game, shooters especially. Replay value can come into question depending on how much you enjoy the game though. I myself, as much as I loved the game, will not be giving it another playthrough. If you are looking for a fun shooter, especially at a bargain price ($4.99 USD), then look no further than this dark and thrilling adventure. (+,-) + Story is consistent + Inconsistent Mission structure -Some dated graphical issues -Online is a graveyard (Overall Score) 8.5/10