[7.8/10] While not a superb sequel still a very fun game with great storyline and gameplay. Also just a bit short.
Difficulty: Just Right Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Too short 
As i said in the title both the storyline and the gameplay in this game is fun and interesting but its also very short. Story -- 85/100 The Storyline is based on the comic books, you play as the Don of the NY mafia Jackie Estecado who owns a special ability of Darkness, a two headed monster that afraid of light and very strong. The Story begins with an attack on the player by a team of people who are also interested in the Darkness. Gameplay -- 75/100 When you are not wielding the darkness demons the shooting mechanic in this game is really familiar with call of duty/average fps game, when you control the darkness however the combat becomes more gory and more optional you can throw things at you enemies and you can use car doors as shields to protect you just dont get close to light or the darkness will hide away. The Core SinglePlayer campaign can last up to 5 hours in my case. There is also a mode called Vendettas where you and your friends can team up and kill the enemies, some sort of cooperative coop except it can also be done alone. Visuals -- 75/100 The visuals in this game changed from the visuals in The Darkness 1, in the first game the visuals were more dark and the game tried to be more intense, here its more animated like borderlands therefore it tries to be more action paced. I dont like these kind of animation, because in my opinion if a game/ new IP starts with this graphics its ok, but when a game change its graphics to this style i dont accept it. Some Visual glitches popped up throughout the gameplay as well. Audio -- 85/100 Great Voice acting and dialogue both from you main protagonist and also from the other characters as well if not little bit too stereotypical for their own good. I had no problem with the music and gun effects as well, overall great package. Final Verdict -- 7.8/10 I never played the first game but from what i saw i can definitely say its the better one but i still had fun with the game just a shame that the game is very short with an 5 hour SP and 3 hours Vendettas mode i wish they added more stuff. The Replayability is good but not enough.
