A Fun Enjoyable Tale of Retribution and Revenge, As A Demon Possessed Mafia Hit-man Back From The Dead
Difficulty: Just Right Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Check your bargain bin 
You are Jackie Estacado, a Mob hit-man for a New York City Crime Family, you've done well by your second family and earned them a lot of cash, and dealt with their problems without a fuss. However your uncle Paulie, head of the Organization has put out a hit on you after you lost him a lot of money on a job. He attempts to blow you up, with a bomb and send his goons after you. The Darkness takes over you, an age old malevolent creature that for almost a 100 years has been in your family and blood. The Darkness controls you, and through it you have access to abilities to devour hearts, snap the heads off enemies with a snake like creature and even a whip that can send enemies flying and throw and smash obstacles. But its when he goes after your love Jenny, after this you kill yourself and are reborn. The Darkness rebuilds you into a more powerful being. The Darkness itself is your weapon, but also at your disposal are more common weapons like double pistols, rifles, shotguns and Uzi's. Its very easy to fire double weapons in The Darkness, as the auto-aim really kicks in well in a firefight. Another point to add, is that the Darkness needs the dark to fester and grow. So you must shoot out lights, and turn off power to entire buildings to really use your abilities to the full. Basically as Jackie, you must hunt down your uncle Paulie and his corrupt Police contact who have killed your love Jenny. To do this you hit your uncle Paulie where it hurts, his bankroll, his money, his business. For his corrupt counterpart in the police, you go after the same things that are as vital to his operations. The Good: - Good graphics for its release, even if they are dated now. - Great game play, slick and smooth. - A very original story, original and very addictive to learn more about. - The Darkness and its abilities, are simple enough to use. The Bad: - Too short. - Sometimes the path you are meant to take is quite hard to see, as its expected of you to know the solution to the obstacle. The Darkness is a great game from only a few years back, and in most bargain bins you can find it for cheap as I did for just ?.