This has the potential to be an interesting franchise.
Difficulty: Just Right Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less The Bottom Line:  Check your bargain bin 
As usual I will point out, I am not a fan of the comics, I've read a few and they varied from annoyingly infantile to somewhat inspired dark comedy, it has elements that I like, mainly the darklings. But you don't have to be a fan to enjoy this game. It's a shooter, first-person shooter, and a damn standard one, at first mind you, gradually you develop and discover all new powers and some quite trippy sequences, not to mention you get to spawn the aforementioned darklings to raise havoc for you. The story is okay, basic revenge plot with supernatural elements, I liked the hellish detour that reminded me of Hellraiser 3: Hell on Earth where the main character is dragged into a war nightmare. The game is not creepy in these sequences, but they have some of the coolest moments including a turret section which stands out as a highlight. There are no bosses, sadly, and the game ends rather anticlimactic, there are also a few glitches, one forced me to restart a very annoying mission, which I had completed but the game wouldn't trigger the cutscene. The train stations can be a bit tricky to navigate at first, but you'll get used to it after a while. I wish there could be more to do in the city, there are a few sidemissions you can choose to do to increase the length of the game. The game looks a bit dated now, which is to be expected, but I guess it looked great back in 2007. The gameplay is still fun, with impressive powers, the black hole is perhaps a little overpowered, but the final mission would be pretty hard without it, I imagine. I don't think there's a run button implemented, that certainly would've been appreciated, especially since you have to go back and forth a lot near the end. Shooting is satisfying with cool execution moves if you happen to get close to an enemy, oh, and you can eat their hearts, the tentacle on the right seems to get all of them, with the left one only occasionally getting a little nibble on some bloody tickers. Despite flaws, I would say The Darkness holds up pretty well, and I hope the second game expands on the fundamentals laid out in this one, I would like to see more darklings and they should make them more independent and useful. But all in all, despite not being a fan of the comic book, I enjoyed the video game adaptation of The Darkness.